One of the command line tools we should not take for granted as developers would be SSH. SSH is not only tremendously useful but also exceedingly powerful, and one reason is that it's highly versatile.

The SSH command takes many different forms, but I haven't seen them covered in a compact, consolidated fashion in one place, though it's not too hard to find usage on each of them piece by piece. As such, I decided to make a handy quick reference, mostly for myself, but it might be of interest to those who also use the command.

## Variations

In this article, I'll cover the usages of the following commands. All of them will be key-based SSH.

- Plain SSH command for logging in to servers
- sshfs
- rsync

There are two ways of executing each of the commands above:

1. By specifying the path to the key and the options in the command line
2. By specifying a host entry in the configuration file (~/.ssh/config)

Note that two examples for each command are for 1. and 2., on first and second line, respectively.

Also, we suppose that the following entry is in the config file.

```
Host hamb
  HostName hostname
  User username
  IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa
  IdentitiesOnly yes
```

### ssh login with a key

```
ssh username@hostname -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa -o IdentitiesOnly=yes
ssh hamb
```

### sshfs

```
sshfs username@hostname:/path/to/folder ~/mnt/folder -o IdentityFile=~/.ssh/id_rsa -o IdentitiesOnly=yes
sshfs hamb:/path/to/folder ~/mnt/folder
```

### rsync

Copy file(s) to remote host:
```
rsync -Pav -e "ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa" file/or/dir/to/copy username@hostname:/destination/folder/
rsync file/or/dir/to/copy hamb:/destination/folder/
```

Copy file(s) from remote host:
```
rsync -Pav -e "ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa" username@hostname:/file/or/dir/to/copy destination/dir/
rsync hamb:/file/or/dir/to/copy destination/dir/
```

#### Notes:
- ~/.ssh/id\_rsa can be any path, i.e. the key does not have to be named 'id\_rsa'
- hostname can be either an IP address, such as 192.168.11.23, or the name of the host if it can be resolved.
